README.md, before:

# Github Instruction Project

This repository is created to demonstrate the github features to students learning Information Technology and Software Engineering courses in RMIT.

The Brief Instruction section shows the command to 
**clone**, 
**upload** modified file, 
and **download** the most recent update.

Further details of each feature above will be demonstrated in the Git Guideline section:

## Brief Instruction

GitHub operations can be done in command line (like Git Bash), 
or a GUI application (like in IDEs such as IntelliJ, VS Code, or other Git GUI)

### GUI-based

This tutorial demonstrates how to **clone** a GitHub repository, 
**upload** modified files and 
**download** the up-to-date version 
using the IntelliJ IDEA 2023 Edition.

#### Cloning Project

From the IntelliJ Hamburger button, open the Main Menu Hamburger Button (Hotkey Alt + \)
, then select File / New / Project from Version Control

![Image showing how to navigate from File to New to Project from Version Control option in the Main Menu of the IDE](picture/menuCreateProjectFromVersionControl.png)

Select the **Repository URL** option and 
paste the HTTPS URL of the repository into the **URL** field. 
Select the target folder location in the local machine in the
**Directory** field and press **Clone**.

![Image Showing the input of a Git Repository in the first line](picture/cloneRepoIdeFirstTime.png)

#### Upload Modified Files to the GitHub Repository on the Server

The next step is to select the modified files that we want to
upload to our **remote** repository in the GitHub server.

Click on the Commit button near the top left corner of the
IntelliJ IDE. We will see two lists of files: Changes and Unversioned Files.
The Changes show the modified files, while the Unversioned Files list the new or deleted files. Select the files or folders that you want to upload to the remote repository in the GitHub server.

Afterward, specify the commit message in the underneath text field. 
This message typically describes the task you accomplished, 
the reason for modifying the files or folders, 
and/or what to do next. 
Finally, press the **Commit and Push...** button if you are
ready to upload the changes to the remote repository. However,
if we just want to apply the change to our local repository only,
then select the **Commit** option.

The below example select the README and Main.java file to be committed.

![An Image showing the tick marks on the selected modified, created, or deleted file. The commit message is below the list, with 2 buttons for "Commit" and "Commit and Push"](picture/markModifiedFileIde.png)

Pressing the **Commit and Push...** button shows a summary
of the changes that will be applied to the remote repository.



### Command Lines

The common procedure of working with GitHub is as follows:

1. **Clone** the **repository** from a GitHub server to a local machine
> git clone yourRepositoryUrl

2. Make changes to *files* or _folders_ inside the repository. 
To prepare for **uploading** the selected _files_ or _folders_ to the GitHub server, 
use the **git add** command. We can add single or multiple files in one **add** command:

> git add fileName1 fileName2

> git add folder1 folder2

**Tip:** **Git only uploads modified file(s) in a folder** when we call **git add <folderName>**. 
Thus, we usually do not have to add each changed file into the **git add** command.

3. **Commit** the selected files or folders with a message to explain the file's modification.
> git commit -m "Explanation of Files or Folders Modification"

4. **Push** (Upload) the selected files or folders to the GitHub server. 
> git push

After pushing successfully, the GitHub server **updates** the changes to the repository 
if no conflict exists.

5. When we want to **download** the **up-to-date repository** 
after our teammates push their code, the command is:
> git pull

## Git Guideline

This section introduces the mechanism of frequently used Git commands. 
We refer to the **Brief Instruction** section if you need a quick start on the project.

## Create and clone a repository

### Cloning a repository

When you or your teammate creates a repository on the GitHub website, 
that repository exists in the GitHub server but not on our computer. 
We need to clone the repository into a folder to "download" the GitHub repository into a machine. 

#### Cloning using GitHub Credential

First, we need a folder to store the repository. 
Create a folder at the desired location in your computer. 
Next, clone the repository using the command below:

> clone http://**<repository_url>**

Clicking the "<> Code" button on the repository home page shows the **repository_url**, as illustrated in the picture below.

![An image showing the <> Code button, clicking on the button opens a pop-up window. Under the HTTPS tab is an input field containing the URL of the GitHub repository](picture/repoCodeCloneUrl.png)

Cloning the HTTPS URL of the repo does not require any additional setup. 
The command to clone using the HTTPS URL is as follows:

> clone https://github.com/TriHuynh00/github-demo.git

## Add new changes to a repository

- Describe the Working Repository, Staging Area, and .git Repository to explain that
adding files are preparing them for commit, but we don't add the file directly to the
repo

Introduce: 
1. git add fileName
2. git add -u : Stage modified and deleted files. NOT new files
3. git add .  : Recursively add the entire directory, including files start with dot
4. git add -A : Stage all modified, deleted, and new files

Add UI Examples

## Commit the change

Commit creates a snapshot of our repo. 
A chain of commits shows the history of our repository.

Introduce:
1. git commit -m "Message" : Creates a snapshot of added files into the repo
2. git commit --amend      : 

Add UI Examples

## Push the change to the repository

### Pushing using SSH

One disadvantage of cloning the repository with HTTPS URL is that
users must give their credentials (username and password) for every push.
Another way to avoid this inconvenience is using the Secure Shell (SSH) key verification mechanism,
which requires users to configure their SSH key once during the entire GitHub session.
Therefore, we can push and pull code without being prompted for credentials.

To set the SSH Key, navigate to your avatar to the top right corner of the screen
and select Settings.

![A picture showing the avatar icon is on the top right of the screen. Clicking this icon opens the User Option](picture/avatarTopRight.png)

![A picture showing the Settings option near the bottom of the User Options panel](picture/settingLocation.png)

// Introduce into pushing in IDE

### Using Authtoken

// Create a single auth token.

// May have problems with multiple account. Not knowing which token to use.

## Pull the code from the repository

git pull

// Conflict Resolution

## Merge local code into the remote repository

## Create feature branch in a repository

Commit message:

Update ReadMe with examples from clone, add, to push and pull in IntelliJ IDE

README.md, after:

# Github Instruction Project

This repository is created to demonstrate the github features to students learning Information Technology and Software Engineering courses in RMIT.

The Brief Instruction section shows the command to 
**clone**, 
**upload** modified file, 
and **download** the most recent update.

Further details of each feature above will be demonstrated in the Git Guideline section:

## Brief Instruction

GitHub operations can be done in command line (like Git Bash), 
or a GUI application (like in IDEs such as IntelliJ, VS Code, or other Git GUI)

### GUI-based

This tutorial demonstrates how to **clone** a GitHub repository, 
**upload** modified files and 
**download** the up-to-date version 
using the IntelliJ IDEA 2023 Edition.

#### Cloning Project

From the IntelliJ Hamburger button, open the Main Menu Hamburger Button (Hotkey Alt + \)
, then select File / New / Project from Version Control

![Image showing how to navigate from File to New to Project from Version Control option in the Main Menu of the IDE](picture/menuCreateProjectFromVersionControl.png)

Select the **Repository URL** option and 
paste the HTTPS URL of the repository into the **URL** field. 
Select the target folder location in the local machine in the
**Directory** field and press **Clone**.

![Image Showing the input of a Git Repository in the first line](picture/cloneRepoIdeFirstTime.png)

#### Upload Modified Files to the GitHub Repository on the Server

The next step is to select the modified files that we want to
upload to our **remote** repository in the GitHub server.

Click on the Commit button near the top left corner of the
IntelliJ IDE. We will see two lists of files: Changes and Unversioned Files.
The Changes show the modified files, while the Unversioned Files list the new or deleted files. Select the files or folders that you want to upload to the remote repository in the GitHub server.

Afterward, specify the commit message in the underneath text field. 
This message typically describes the task you accomplished, 
the reason for modifying the files or folders, 
and/or what to do next. 
Finally, press the **Commit and Push...** button if you are
ready to upload the changes to the remote repository. However,
if we just want to apply the change to our local repository only,
then select the **Commit** option.

The below example select the README and Main.java file to be committed.

![An Image showing the tick marks on the selected modified, created, or deleted file. The commit message is below the list, with 2 buttons for "Commit" and "Commit and Push"](picture/markModifiedFileIde.png)

Pressing the **Commit and Push...** button shows a summary
of the changes that will be applied to the remote repository.
Pressing the **Push** button will upload and merge the changes
to the remote repository.

![A panel summarizing the commits to be merged into the remote repository](picture/pushModifiedFileIde.png)

#### Download the Latest Version from the Remote Repository

To get the latest version into our local machine.
Select the Git option (Alt + 9) in the bottom left corner of the IDE,
a Directory Tree will appear. Right-click on the branch that you want
to download from the repository 
and select Pull into '<branchName>' to download the latest version of the branch.

The following example pulls the latest version of the main branch to the local repository.

![A screenshot showing the Git option, selected branch, and the Pull into Branch Using Merge option](picture/pullFilesIde.png)

### Command Lines

The common procedure of working with GitHub is as follows:

1. **Clone** the **repository** from a GitHub server to a local machine
> git clone yourRepositoryUrl

2. Make changes to *files* or _folders_ inside the repository. 
To prepare for **uploading** the selected _files_ or _folders_ to the GitHub server, 
use the **git add** command. We can add single or multiple files in one **add** command:

> git add fileName1 fileName2

> git add folder1 folder2

**Tip:** **Git only uploads modified file(s) in a folder** when we call **git add <folderName>**. 
Thus, we usually do not have to add each changed file into the **git add** command.

3. **Commit** the selected files or folders with a message to explain the file's modification.
> git commit -m "Explanation of Files or Folders Modification"

4. **Push** (Upload) the selected files or folders to the GitHub server. 
> git push

After pushing successfully, the GitHub server **updates** the changes to the repository 
if no conflict exists.

5. When we want to **download** the **up-to-date repository** 
after our teammates push their code, the command is:
> git pull

## Git Guideline

This section introduces the mechanism of frequently used Git commands. 
We refer to the **Brief Instruction** section if you need a quick start on the project.

## Create and clone a repository

### Cloning a repository

When you or your teammate creates a repository on the GitHub website, 
that repository exists in the GitHub server but not on our computer. 
We need to clone the repository into a folder to "download" the GitHub repository into a machine. 

#### Cloning using GitHub Credential

First, we need a folder to store the repository. 
Create a folder at the desired location in your computer. 
Next, clone the repository using the command below:

> clone http://**<repository_url>**

Clicking the "<> Code" button on the repository home page shows the **repository_url**, as illustrated in the picture below.

![An image showing the <> Code button, clicking on the button opens a pop-up window. Under the HTTPS tab is an input field containing the URL of the GitHub repository](picture/repoCodeCloneUrl.png)

Cloning the HTTPS URL of the repo does not require any additional setup. 
The command to clone using the HTTPS URL is as follows:

> clone https://github.com/TriHuynh00/github-demo.git

## Add new changes to a repository

- Describe the Working Repository, Staging Area, and .git Repository to explain that
adding files are preparing them for commit, but we don't add the file directly to the
repo

Introduce: 
1. git add fileName
2. git add -u : Stage modified and deleted files. NOT new files
3. git add .  : Recursively add the entire directory, including files start with dot
4. git add -A : Stage all modified, deleted, and new files

Add UI Examples

## Commit the change

Commit creates a snapshot of our repo. 
A chain of commits shows the history of our repository.

Introduce:
1. git commit -m "Message" : Creates a snapshot of added files into the repo
2. git commit --amend      : 

Add UI Examples

## Push the change to the repository

### Pushing using SSH

One disadvantage of cloning the repository with HTTPS URL is that
users must give their credentials (username and password) for every push.
Another way to avoid this inconvenience is using the Secure Shell (SSH) key verification mechanism,
which requires users to configure their SSH key once during the entire GitHub session.
Therefore, we can push and pull code without being prompted for credentials.

To set the SSH Key, navigate to your avatar to the top right corner of the screen
and select Settings.

![A picture showing the avatar icon is on the top right of the screen. Clicking this icon opens the User Option](picture/avatarTopRight.png)

![A picture showing the Settings option near the bottom of the User Options panel](picture/settingLocation.png)

// Introduce into pushing in IDE

### Using Authtoken

// Create a single auth token.

// May have problems with multiple account. Not knowing which token to use.

## Pull the code from the repository

git pull

// Conflict Resolution

## Merge local code into the remote repository

## Create feature branch in a repository
